I need to change the core logic of the system in the following way:

the 6 modes are: 0- show time, 1- show alarms, 2 - set alarm, 4- set time, 5- alarm ringing, 5-alarm disable. modes 1 through 3 can be cycled va the mode switch, but the alarm ringing mode can only be entered by an alarm going off. default/starting mode is 0.
make the mode switch button consistent, middle button bnu(t18) will always cycle between modes - 0,1,3,0, and so on. Mode 2 can only be accessed feom mode 1, when an alarm is selected to be set, and mode 4 is only accessed when an alarm is running. the other buttons will change in functionaliy depening on the current mode.

LED L1 will be the status LED. it will bink 3 times in 1s interval for any input error.
the current mode will be displayed using te LEDs. the 5 LEDs w3, u3,p3,n3,p1 will be lit when selected mode is 0,1,2,3,4 respectively. 
during all modes except the alarm ringing mode, the 1st 10 LEDS u16, e19, u19, v19, w18, u15, u14, v14, v13, v3 will be used to show which of the available 10 alsrms are set. from alarm 0 to alarm 9, the corresponding LED will be lit if the alarm is set, and off if it is not set.

mode 0: shows the currrent time in hh::mm format on the 7-segment display,  and the 10 alarm LEDs show which alarms are set.

mode 1: the show alarm mode, the 10 LEDS correcsponding to the alarms will be lit if the alarm is set, but the user will be able to select the alarm they can set. the currently selected alarm's correcponding LED will be blinking to show that it is selected, and the alarm time will be shown in the 7 segment in hh::mm format, in stead of the time.
If the alarm is unset, the 7 segment will show AAAA. The default selected alarm slot is 0. the user can change the selected alarm using the left(btnl) and right(btnr) buttons, and can unset the selected alarm using the up button. pressing the down button will take the user to the set alarm mode, with the currently selected alarm slot.

mode 2: the set alarm mode, the user can set the time for the currently selected alarm slot. the 7 segment will show the current alarm time in hh::mm format, and the user can change the hours using the left and right buttons, and change the minutes using the up and down buttons. pressing the middle button will save the alarm time and return to mode 1. in this mode, pressing the middle button will not switch mode, rather save the alarm. if possible, long prssing any of the up/down or left/right button will auto incease/decrease the hours or minutes, to make it easier to set the alarm time. flipping the switch r2(0->1/1->0) will cancel the current alarm setting and return to mode 1 without saving any changes. if the user tries to set an alarm time that is already set for another alarm slot, the status LED will blink 3 times to indicate an error, and the alarm time will not be saved. the user will have to choose a different time for the alarm.

mode 3: the set time mode, the user can set the current time. the 7 segment will show the current time in hh::mm format, and the user can change the hours using the left and right buttons, and change the minutes using the up and down buttons. pressing the middle button will save the current time and return to mode 0. in this mode, pressing the middle button will not switch mode, rather save the current time. if possible, long prssing any of the up/down or left/right button will auto incease/decrease the hours or minutes, to make it easier to set the current time. flipping the switch r2(0->1/1->0) will cancel the current time setting and return to mode 0 without saving any changes. So, the tme keeping must be kept running in the background even when setting the time, and only update the time when the user saves the new time.

mode 4: the alarm ringing mode, when an alarm goes off, the system will enter this mode. All LEDs will start to blink to indicate the alarm is ringing, and the 7-segment display will show "ALRM". the swicher will do nothing in this mode at first. same is true for up/down and left/right buttons. pressing the up button will snooze the alarm 5 minutes(replacing the current alarm time with the current time + 5 minutes), and return to mode 0. pressing the down button will do the same, only snoozing the alarm for 10 minutes instead of 5. pressing the middle button will initiate alarm disable mode.

mode 5: the alarm disable mode, when the user presses the middle button in alarm ringing mode, the system will enter this mode. in this mode, the right 2 7 segment displays will show "OF", and the 3rd from the left will show a hexadecimal digit, which will be randomly generated you need to find a way to generate a random number between 0 and 15, and show it on the 7 segment display. the user will have to input the correct hexadecimal digit by flipping the 1st 4 switches(right->lsb, lft->msb), and the right button to confirm their selection. if they select the correct digit, the alarm will be disabled and the system will return to mode 0. if they select the wrong digit or press an irrelevant button like the left button, the status LED will blink 3 times to indicate an error, and they will have to try again with a new randomly generated digit. The user can also choose to snooze the alarm for 5 or 10 minutes using the down button or up button respectively, instead of trying to disable it. during this mode, any other switch flipping will result in nothing. 
This is a complex system with a lot of different modes and functionalities, so it will require careful planning and implementation to ensure that all the features work correctly and that the user interface is intuitive and easy to use. It will also require a good understanding of how to use the switches, buttons, LEDs, and 7-segment display on the Basys3 board to create a functional and user-friendly alarm clock system. You will design a clear, unambiguous and detailed plan on the registers, state machines, RTL and logic needed to implement this system, and then write the necessary code in Verilog to bring it to life. The system must hve its own architeture, ISA, rtl logic, ROM and memory operations,You will also need to test the system thoroughly by creating testbenches to ensure that all the features work as intended and that there are no bugs or issues that could affect the user experience. Any operation ther than simple bolean operations must be implemented with your own modules, and you cannot use any built in functions that do the work for you. For example, you cannot use a built in adder to add 5 minutes to the current time for the snooze function, you will have to implement your own adder module to do this. You also cannot use a built in random number generator to generate the random hexadecimal digit for the alarm disable mode, you will have to implement your own random number generator module to do this. You will need to be creative and resourceful in finding ways to implement all the necessary functionality using only basic logic gates and modules that you create yourself. you wull also update the report.md file with a complete ready to submit report on this project with appropriate sections such as introduction, design, implementation, testing, and conclusion. The report should be well-written, clear, and concise, and should provide a detailed overview of the project and its features. The report should also include any relevant diagrams,or other visual aids to help illustrate the design and functionality of the system. Diagrams will be written in graphviz code. There are currentlyssome diagrams, modify these diagrams to match the new design and add any additional diagrams that are necessary to fully explain the system, such a flowchart showing the usage and mode switching logic. You will also need to create a user manual that explains how to use the alarm clock system, including how to switch between modes, set the time and alarms, and disable the alarm when it goes off. The user manual should be clear and easy to understand, and should include step-by-step instructions for each of the different features and functionalities of the system.

Do a thorough research and make the plan, and ask me for any clarifications or additional information you need to complete the project successfully. No guesswork.